# covid-convlstm-one-code
  The rapid outbreak of COVID-19 has affected the lives and livelihoods of a large section of the society. Hence, to confine the rapid spread of this virus, early detection of COVID-19 is extremely important. One of the popular ways of detecting COVID-19 is by using chest X-ray images. In literature, it is found that most of the front line works used convolutional neural network (CNN) models where features generated by the last convolutional layers were directly passed to the classification models. However, here we also use convolutional long short term memory (ConvLSTM) layer to encode the spatial dependency among the feature maps obtained from the last convolutional layer of the CNN models in use. This helps the whole model improve its image representational capability. Additionally, we employ squeeze-and-excitation (SE) block, spacial attention mechanism, which helps the network to allocate better weights to the important local features. We first apply these two mechanisms on three popular CNN models - VGG19, InceptionV3 and MobileNetV2 to improve their classification strength, and then we use Sugeno fuzzy integral based ensembling method on these classifiers' outputs to improve the detection accuracy further. For experiments, we prepare a database containing chest X-ray images of normal subjects, COVID-19 and Pneumonia infected patients from publicly available datasets. The classification accuracies obtained by using only the pre-trained VGG19, InceptionV3 and MobileNetV2 models as classifiers are 97.40\%, 96.58\% and 97.72\% respectively. After adding ConvLSTM layers to each of the classifiers using pre-trained models of VGG19, InceptionV3 and MobileNetV2, the accuracies we get are 97.72\%, 97.80\% and 97.88\% respectively. Again after adding SE block to each of the improved classifiers using pre-trained models of VGG19, Incpetion V3 and MobileNetV2, the classification accuracies that they give are 97.96\%, 98.94\% and 98.45\% respectively. Finally, after applying the Sugeno integral based ensembling method, we obtain 99.35\% classification accuracy on the present dataset.
